
		ESCAPE FROM PROXIMA 5
		---------------------

		[ BACK STORY ]

Three centuries ago, while making their first interstellar exploratory steps
in slow generation ships, our people discovered Proxima 5, dozens of light
years from our home world.

Proxima 5 was not like other planets our people had discovered.  Orbiting a
red dwarf star, 4.24 light-years from the nearest life-bearing planet,
Proxima 5 was found to be unique for several reasons.

Proxima 5 is not the closest planet in its system to its primary; but it is the
closest terrestrial planet in the system.  (Gas giant Proxima 3 orbits closer
at 2.3 AU.  There is evidence of two other rocky inner planets that existed,
once, perhaps millions or billions of years ago, but they are long gone, their
disappearance a mystery.  Today only two sparse belts of asteroids populate
those orbits.)

The fourth planet, Proxima 4, has a special relationship with Proxima 5. 
Proxima 4 is the more massive, massing about six times Proxima 5, and they
whirl about each other at an average distance of a mere 30,000 km, though
Proxima 5 swings around the center of gravity on a very elliptcal path.
This is an unusual planetary configuration, and one that imparts considerable
energy to both partners.  If either planet had oceans, the tides would swing by
hundreds of meters.

At approximately 3 AUs from the diminutive primary, both Proxima 4 and 5
receive far too little solar radiation to sustain life.  However, the energy
resulting from their whirling dance is sufficient to heat the insides of
both planets quite substantially.

On Proxima 5, this has fueled the evolution of life in the caverns and
ancient lava tubes that run deep through the planet's crust and mantle.

Amongst all this, our people also found artifacts, some dating back apparently
many millions of years, indicating a star-faring culture.  Not much remained,
the youngest remains being no more recent than 27.2 million years, and
Proxima 5's vigorous geology doing what it can to erase any long term
evidence from the planet.

It is unclear whether intelligent life evolved here, or merely was visiting,
there is simply not enough left in the record.  Perhaps another culture found
this planet as interesting as we did.  Much of those people, including their
ultimate fate, remains a mystery to this day.

When our people discovered Proxima 5, and the unique conditions of life here,
it was determined that further study of the system was warranted, although
the conditions were not deemed suitable for full-scale colonization.  So
a contingent a few dozen scientists and their families, and some support
personnel were left behind, while the generation ship continued on to look
for more suitable colonization prospects.

Over a period of two centuries, the research colony here on Proxima 5 grew
from a couple of dozen people to nearly a million scientists, their families,
and supporting staff.  Periodic communication with the home world and our
other colonies occurred over light speed transmissions.  Visits by star ship
were rare.

Then, 123 years ago, Proxima 5 lost contact with everyone else, including
the home world.  All of the transmisions we had been receiving just stopped.
Theories abound -- was it an attack by hostile forces? Did our people exprience
some sort of technological singularity?  Was there some other disaster of
interstellar proportions.  We simply do not know, even to this day.

After the shock of losing contact, and the initial social disruptions that
resulted, our people on Proxima 5 colony hunkered down, and re-founded our
culture, valuing scientific discovery and the arts above other endeavors. 
Ours became an enlightened society, and Proxima (for we had long ago dropped
the “5”) became our true home.

Fearing whatever fate befell the rest of our culture might happen to us as
well, we kept to ourselves, and retreated ever deeper into the core of
Proxima 5, seeking its secrets rather than looking outward.

It was 27 years ago, when Xyxaz Zhovu cracked the secret of super-luminal
travel.  Initial short range explorations have been made, and the technology
is sound.  Since then, we have been producing a fleet of small craft, far
underground, ready to take teams of our people back to the home world,
to either re-establish contact, or to recolonize if necessary.

Still our people have debated about the wisdom of wider exploration, fearing
that whatever happened to our 123 years ago might befall us.  Even unmanned
probes represent a risk, in that they might give away our location to
an unknown enemy.  There is safety in hiding, and ours is not a culture of
bravery.

		[ NOW ]

Perhaps the mysterious disappearance of our people, or even the ancient
culture that was here millions of years ago, is now understood.

A black hole, massing some hundred stellar masses, traveling at a extrem 
velocities, has just entered our system.

Our scientists have analyzed its path.

Once every few million years, it's path brings it close to the unfortunately
named Proxima system.  Once every 27.2 of those millions of years, the path is 
close enough to cause local devastation.

Very soon, this black hole will rip through the inner system, perhaps
destroying more planets including Proxima 5 just as it apparently destroyed
Proxima 1 and 2 so many millions of years ago.

Commander, your starship training is of immediate utility.  We no longer
need concern ourselves with the risks of discovery, for our very existence
is threatened by this Nemesis black hole.

You need to evacuate as many people as you can from the planet's interior.
They may be all that remains of our species, and our culture.

Time is running out.  The black hole's approach is rapid, and its
gravitational effects are already causing disruptions throughout the system.
The primary is undergoing giant fluctuations in its output, and the resulting
flares have knocked out many of our systems, and confused others.  Multiple
blast waves have been detected leaving it, and they are headed here.

The native fauna are running rampant, and defense systems intended to protect
our people from the most dangerous of those are either offline or
malfunctioning. Our own defense systems are now as much a threat to us as they
are to anything else.  You'll need to be wary of both the defenses and the
critters.

Your craft is waiting in the launch bay, in the deep caverns.  The most
important first evacuees are already enroute and will have boarded before
you get there.  You have only limited armament, a short range star drive,
and limited time.

Your journey to the surface, and ultimately out of the system, will be
treacherous, but we are out of choices, and out of time.

If you make it to the surface, take your squadron, and make for Sol,
the nearest system.  The conditions on the third planet were habitable
when last surveyed 203 years ago.  Hopefully the natives there, a primate
species who call themselves "human", will be welcoming.  They were just
entering their industrial revolution at the time of the last survey.  There
are no other options within range.

[ Blaring alert: BLASTWAVE APPROACHING  --  TIME TO IMPACT 24 SENARI ]
[ Blaring alert: PILOTS AND CREWS REPORT TO STARSHIPS IMMEDIATELY ]

Oh, fozzle!  I thought we had at least 200 senari before the first
blast waves would hit; things are happening even faster than my worst fears.

Get to your ship commander, our people are counting on you!  Xevaru protect
us all, I have to get to my family, and you have to save the few of us that
you can.
